TIP-20 Transaction Payload with TIP-18 Output Types (#40)
iotaledger/tips: text/0018-transaction-payload/0018-transaction-payload.md

## Validation

A <i>Transaction Payload</i> has different validation stages, since some validation steps can only be executed when certain information has (or has not) been received. We therefore distinguish between syntactic and semantic validation

> The different output types and optional output feature blocks introduced by [draft RFC-0038](https://github.com/iotaledger/protocol-rfcs/pull/38) add additional constraints to the transaction validation rules, but since these are specific to the given outputs and features, they are discussed for each [output type](https://github.com/lzpap/protocol-rfcs/blob/master/text/0038-output-types-for-tokenization-and-sc/0038-output-types-for-tokenization-and-sc.md#output-design) and [feature block type](https://github.com/lzpap/protocol-rfcs/blob/master/text/0038-output-types-for-tokenization-and-sc/0038-output-types-for-tokenization-and-sc.md#optional-output-features) separately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The different output types and optional output feature blocks introduced by [draft RFC-0038](https://github.com/iotaledger/protocol-rfcs/pull/38) add additional constraints to the transaction validation rules, but since these are specific to the given outputs and features, they are discussed for each [output type](https://github.com/lzpap/protocol-rfcs/blob/master/tips/TIP-0018/tip-0018.md#output-design) and [feature block type](https://github.com/lzpap/protocol-rfcs/blob/master/tips/TIP-0018/tip-0018.md#optional-output-features) separately.
```

The following criteria defines whether a payload passes the semantic validation:
* Each input must reference a valid UTXO, i.e. the output referenced by the input's `Transaction ID` and `Transaction Output Index` is known (booked) and unspent.
* The transaction must spend the entire coin balance, i.e. the sum of the `Amount` fields of all the UTXOs referenced by inputs must match the sum of the `Amount` fields of all outputs.
* The sum of all `Native Token Counts` in the UTXOs referenced by inputs plus the sum of all `Native Token Counts` in the outputs must not be larger than `Max Native Token Count`.
* The transaction must be balanced in terms of native tokens, i.e. the amount of native tokens present in all the UTXOs referenced by inputs equals to that of outputs. Otherwise, the foundry outputs controlling outstanding native token balances must be present in the transaction. The validation of the foundry output(s) determines if the outstanding balances are valid.

> * Each output and all its [output feature blocks](https://github.com/lzpap/protocol-rfcs/blob/master/text/0038-output-types-for-tokenization-and-sc/0038-output-types-for-tokenization-and-sc.md#optional-output-features) must pass semantic validation in the context of the following input:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Each output and all its [output feature blocks](https://github.com/lzpap/protocol-rfcs/blob/master/tips/TIP-0018/tip-0018.md#optional-output-features) must pass semantic validation in the context of the following input:
```
